Title: Fileless Phantom Stealer Targets Browser Credentials
URL: https://www.darkreading.com/cyberattacks-data-breaches/fileless-phantom-stealer-targets-browser-credentials
Author: (unknown)
Date: (unknown)
Topic: cyberattacks-data-breaches

In addition to executing entirely in memory, the malware's infection chain incorporates other anti-analysis techniques designed to evade detection.

A threat actor is targeting banks and other high-value organizations in a phishing campaign to deliver Phantom Stealer, a credential and session-stealing malware designed to evade conventional endpoint defenses.

What makes the campaign concerning, according to researchers at Fortra, is the adversary's use of heavily obfuscated, fileless techniques to complicate detection and enable the malware to execute largely in memory.

Related: INC Ransomware Thrives by Mastering the Basics

The Phantom Stealer attacks that Fortra observed are ongoing. They typically begin with a phishing email containing what appears to be a legitimate business document, such as a request for quotation. If a victim opens the attachment, a heavily obfuscated batch file launches a multistage infection chain that ultimately injects Phantom Stealer into the legitimate Windows Explorer process.

In addition to executing entirely in memory, the Phantom Stealer infection chain incorporates other anti-analysis techniques designed to frustrate detection and malware analysis, Fortra said. These include obfuscated PowerShell commands, disguised API calls, hidden Unicode characters, and Base64-encoded strings for obscuring commands, file names, and other data within the malware.

Phantom Stealer's dropper is particularly notable because of its layered composition, which significantly hinders visibility into what the code is actually doing, says Aranzazu Mendez Casillas, a researcher with Fortra. "What makes this specific case unique is how the dropper was composed," Casillas says in comments to Dark Reading. "It wasn’t simply Base64, it was Base64 + XOR + donut. This means the attackers aren't focusing on the malware per se, but in the dropper, which means at the moment of analysis, researchers won't have a clear view of what's actually happening."

Related: Sweeping Credential-Harvesting Heist Compromises 30K+ Fortinet Devices

Researchers at Group-IB who are also tracking the Phantom Stealer threat have previously described it as an example of malware that allows cybercriminals to scale credential theft activity. Between November 2025 and January 2026, Group-IB tracked a sustained Phantom Stealer campaign that targeted logistics, manufacturing, and technology organizations in Europe.

Related: 'Lorem Ipsum' Malware Pivots to ClickFix Delivery

The Phantom Stealer campaign is another indication of how browsers have become the new endpoint for attackers looking to steal credentials, authentication tokens, and critical business data. A lot of it has to do with how browsers have become the primary gateway for enterprises to SaaS platforms, cloud apps, banking systems, and other critical applications. Modern browsers also store a weatlh of information for cyber criminals, making them a high-value target for attackers.

Fortra has provided indicators of compromise and other telemetry organizations can use to protect against the Phantom Stealer threat. In addition, Casillas advises that organizations look beyond signature-based tools for detecting such threats. "Organizations need to prioritize deploying behavior-based AV/EDR," he notes. "This will allow them to scan for suspicious behaviors like abnormal command lines or env creations."
