Title: Global Stock Exchange Hit by Monthslong Email Campaign
URL: https://www.darkreading.com/cyberattacks-data-breaches/global-stock-exchange-hit-monthslong-email-campaign
Author: (unknown)
Date: (unknown)
Topic: cyberattacks-data-breaches

A threat actor got a near-continuous view into an influential finance executive's email inbox, thanks to clever use of legitimate, native Windows tools.

An unknown hacker or hackers managed to spy on a senior member of an unnamed global stock exchange for at least five months.

Lots of questions still surround an email spying campaign reported by Symantec and Carbon Black this week, like who was behind it and how they obtained initial access. What's clear is that some threat actor subtly, meticulously crept into a high-ranking finance executive's Microsoft Outlook mailbox and siphoned off months' worth of emails.

Those emails likely contained intimate information about the target's organization, from contacts and calendar events to the details of specific business deals. Considering the nature of the target's organization — a major financial exchange — that intelligence could have been of significant value to businesses, investors, or a foreign government.

"Organizations such as exchanges and regulators may hold non-public information about listings, enforcement actions, and market-moving events," the researchers wrote in a blog post. "Months of unfettered access to that mailbox lets an attacker build a near-complete picture of the target's working life and the organization's near-term direction."

Related: INC Ransomware Thrives by Mastering the Basics

Cybersecurity researchers often uncover malware or malicious behaviors designed to be stealthy. Though these cases usually are novel and interesting, they're typically failures to some degree, since, if they were really stealthy, they'd have never ended up in a research report.

It may be a testament to the threat actor in this story that by the time cyber defenders realized something was afoot, the actor had already broken into their target's system and gained complete administrative access.

We still don't know how they managed to do all that. The recorded part of the story began later, Oct. 10, 2025. Marc Elias, threat intelligence analyst for the Symantec and Carbon Black Threat Hunter Team, recalls, "The first signs of activity we observed on the machine likely stemmed from lateral movement originating from a previously compromised device." By that point the attacker was already running two implants on the host machine, both with system privileges. One was designed to look like Adobe software, and the other OneDrive . For the sake of persistence, the former was registered as a scheduled task set to run every five minutes.

The initial bricklaying phase of the campaign concluded a month later. On Nov. 12, 2025, the attacker or attackers set up a command-and-control (C2) channel via Dropbox, so that their malicious exfiltrations might appear like legitimate network traffic. They registered a new scheduled task for running batch files, branded as an ordinary Lenovo system health check — the Lenovo bit demonstrating an intimate knowledge of their target's machine — and then deployed a custom infostealer.

Related: Sweeping Credential-Harvesting Heist Compromises 30K+ Fortinet Devices

The infostealer was built on a legitimate .NET library from Aspose. Aspose is a company that specializes in application programming interfaces (APIs) that help developers create, edit, and convert file formats. The threat actor used the legitimate tool to convert the target's emails into local files, for exfiltration via Dropbox.

The threat actor exfiltrated all the victim's emails between August and mid-November 2025. Then they repeatedly stole the target's entire email inbox roughly every two to four weeks, at least until Feb. 17, 2026. The exfiltration ended at that point, for whatever reason, though the attacker seems to have tinkered around for another month.

"Following that last exfiltration event, the attackers dropped new backdoors, which constitutes the final activity we observed on the machine on March 19. We assume the operators lost access to the device after that date, as no further malicious activity was detected," Elias says.

Related: Fileless Phantom Stealer Targets Browser Credentials

Though the attackers were meticulous, sophisticated in their tactics, and patient, they were far from unstoppable. Elias points out that there are a number of steps high-value targets can take to protect themselves from similar attacks.

"The organization could have detected and prevented the data exfiltration to cloud services by utilizing a cloud access security broker (CASB) and data loss prevention (DLP) solution," he argues. "They could have halted the attack earlier by actively reviewing and responding to the alerts generated by their endpoint detection and response (EDR) software."
