Title: Sweeping Credential-Harvesting Heist Compromises 30K+ Fortinet Devices
URL: https://www.darkreading.com/cyberattacks-data-breaches/sweeping-credential-harvesting-heist-compromises-30k-fortinet-devices
Author: security consultant Volodymyr Diachenko. Researchers from SOCRadar uncovered the campaign, which they dubbed "FortiBleed," when they found an exposed operational server belonging to attackers, which are suspected Russian-speaking threat actors. This gave them visibility into the group's tooling, victim database, automation infrastructure, and verified credential repository, according to
Date: (unknown)
Topic: cyberattacks-data-breaches

Attackers are actively targeting various sectors across nearly 200 countries and already have compiled a list of working credentials for tens of thousands of compromised devices.

A large-scale credential harvesting operation is actively targeting Fortinet firewalls and VPN gateways, and has already compromised more than 30,000 Internet-facing devices across nearly 200 countries.

Evidence of the credential harvesting was first spotted by security consultant Volodymyr Diachenko. Researchers from SOCRadar uncovered the campaign, which they dubbed "FortiBleed," when they found an exposed operational server belonging to attackers, which are suspected Russian-speaking threat actors. This gave them visibility into the group's tooling, victim database, automation infrastructure, and verified credential repository, according to a report published on June 16.

"The attacker's database contains login credentials for more than 30,791 devices belonging to companies and government organizations across 194 countries," according to the report. "These are not random guesses. These are verified, working usernames and passwords, tested and confirmed by the attackers themselves using automated tools running around the clock."

Related: INC Ransomware Thrives by Mastering the Basics

SOCRadar emphasized that they did not find any evidence of exploited Fortinet flaws in the operation and are considering it strictly as a credential-compromise campaign, one that should be taken seriously, according to the report.

"The most striking thing about the FortiBleed breach is what's missing from it," Waseem Ahmed, head of engineering at Secure.com, tells Dark Reading. "There's no zero-day, no exploit, no actual 'bleed.' Despite the name, this isn't a vulnerability but a pile of credentials leaked in earlier Fortinet breaches, fired back at organizations that never bothered to change them."

Indeed, SOCRadar's analysis found that the firewalls and VPNs compromised often had security weaknesses in the targeted network infrastructure. Many were either generic administrator accounts, default or built-in Fortinet system accounts, or long-lived accounts with passwords that had never been rotated after previous breaches, the researchers said.

The compromised devices so far comprise 21,108 unique IP addresses and 8,316 unique domains across government, telecommunications, healthcare, education, financial services, and critical infrastructure sectors, the researchers found. Among those, telecommunications accounted for over 5,600 compromised devices, while government organizations represented 591 across 111 domains.

Enterprise organizations generating more than $1 billion in annual revenue accounted for more than 20% of affected devices, while India and the US reportedly accounted for nearly one-third of all identified credential compromises . Affected organizations were also found across Asia, Europe, the Americas, Africa, and the Middle East.

Related: Fileless Phantom Stealer Targets Browser Credentials

Given that the attack remains active and " Fortinet firewalls and VPN gateways are among the most widely deployed network security devices in the world," the ongoing threat is rated as "critical" and demands an immediate response from affected organizations, SOCRadar noted in the report. Indeed, these devices are often in the crosshairs of attackers , given their ubiquity and the entry into networks that they can provide.

"If your organization uses a Fortinet firewall or VPN product and appears in this dataset, treat your network perimeter as already compromised and act immediately," said SOCRadar.

The operation is built around a self-sustaining, fully automated attack chain in which attackers scan the Internet for Fortinet devices and then employ credential reuse, credential stuffing, and password spraying against exposed Fortinet management and VPN interfaces. As part of this, attackers used previously leaked Fortinet credentials and continuously validated successful logins through this automated scanning infrastructure, SOCRadar said.

Related: 'Lorem Ipsum' Malware Pivots to ClickFix Delivery

Once a device is compromised, attackers "use it as a listening post, monitoring traffic passing through and collecting any additional credentials that flow by," according to the report. The freshly collected passwords are then fed back into the scanner to compromise even more devices.

"The system feeds itself," the report stated.

Though the operation seems highly professional, the attackers did make a significant mistake in leaving a server exposed that "revealed far more about them than they intended," including clues to their identities and motives, the vendor said.

SOCRadar also said technical evidence points to Russian-speaking threat actors and noted that the victim selection was "heavily weighted toward organizations in NATO member countries." These attackers also appear to be motivated not only by financial gain but also by potential cyber espionage, as credentials for what appears to be a defense industry VPN endpoint were among the recovered data, according to the post.

The campaign demonstrates the scale at which attackers can successfully weaponize credential reuse and poor password hygiene, especially when they use automation as a core part of their attack strategy. The lesson here for defenders, then, is that perimeter security appliances, especially those from Fortinet , remain high-value targets and must be secured with more care and attention.

As mentioned, any organization using Fortinet firewalls or VPNs should take immediate action to secure these assets, including the immediate rotation of all administrative and VPN credentials. They also should enable multifactor authentication on all remote access and administrative accounts, according to SOCRadar.

Additionally, security teams should review all authentication and VPN logs for suspicious access; remove management interfaces from the public Internet where possible; upgrade devices to all current firmware versions; and conduct the appropriate incident response investigation if a compromise is found or suspected.
